README.md, before:

# 🌙 Midnight Network - Complete LLM Reference

[![Midnight](https://img.shields.io/badge/Midnight-Network-purple)](https://midnight.network)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue)](LICENSE)
[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docs-midnight.network-green)](https://docs.midnight.network)

**The definitive reference collection for Midnight Network development**  
**Optimized for LLMs, AI assistants, RAG systems, and developers**

---

## 🎯 What's Here

| File | Purpose | Size |
|------|---------|------|
| **[LLM_QUICK_START.md](LLM_QUICK_START.md)** | Essential patterns - minimal context | ~200 lines |
| **[MIDNIGHT_COMPLETE_SINGLE_FILE.md](i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref/MIDNIGHT_COMPLETE_SINGLE_FILE.md)** | ALL documentation consolidated | 33,422 lines |
| **[COMMON_ERRORS.md](COMMON_ERRORS.md)** | Error messages → Solutions | Quick lookup |
| **[KNOWN_ISSUES.md](KNOWN_ISSUES.md)** | Bugs, gotchas, workarounds | Critical |
| **[DOCKER_IMAGES.md](DOCKER_IMAGES.md)** | Official Docker Hub images | New |
| **[GITHUB_REPOS.md](GITHUB_REPOS.md)** | All official midnightntwrk repos | 27+ repos |
| **[OFFICIAL_RESOURCES.md](OFFICIAL_RESOURCES.md)** | Videos, Discord, community links | - |

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### For LLMs / AI Assistants

**Small context window?** Load:
```
LLM_QUICK_START.md
```

**Full context available?** Load:
```
i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref/MIDNIGHT_COMPLETE_SINGLE_FILE.md
```

### For Developers

```bash
# Clone this repo
git clone https://github.com/bytewizard42i/i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref_repo.git

# Or just grab the docs
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bytewizard42i/i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref_repo/main/i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref/MIDNIGHT_COMPLETE_SINGLE_FILE.md
```

---

## 📚 Documentation Structure

### Complete Single-File Reference
**Location**: `i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref/MIDNIGHT_COMPLETE_SINGLE_FILE.md`

| Section | Contents |
|---------|----------|
| **SECTION 1** | Quick Reference - critical setup, common patterns |
| **SECTION 2** | Complete API Documentation (250+ items) |
| **SECTION 3** | Minokawa Language Reference (v0.18.0) |
| **SECTION 4** | Architecture & Concepts |
| **SECTION 5** | Development Guides |
| **SECTION 6** | Project Documentation |
| **SECTION 7** | Network & Infrastructure |
| **SECTION 8** | Supporting Documentation |

---

## ⚠️ Critical Version Info (Updated Jan 2026)

| Component | Recommended | Notes |
|-----------|-------------|-------|
| **Compiler (compactc)** | `0.26.0` | ⚠️ FLAG FOR REVIEW - see KNOWN_ISSUES.md |
| **Language Pragma** | `>= 0.16 && <= 0.18` | Use RANGE, not exact |
| **Midnight.js** | v2.1.0 | Latest stable |
| **Ledger** | v4.0.0 | Latest stable |
| **Network** | Testnet_02 | Current testnet |
| **Node.js** | v23.x | Recommended (22.x works) |

### 🌟 MeshJS Starter Template (Recommended)
- **Repo**: [MeshJS/midnight-starter-template](https://github.com/MeshJS/midnight-starter-template)
- **Features**: React frontend, wallet widget, CLI tools, complete setup
- **Live Demo**: https://counter.nebula.builders

---

## 🔗 Official Resources

| Resource | Link |
|----------|------|
| **Documentation** | https://docs.midnight.network |
| **GitHub** | https://github.com/midnightntwrk |
| **Discord** | https://discord.com/invite/midnightnetwork |
| **YouTube** | https://www.youtube.com/@midnight.network |
| **Tutorial Playlist** | [Watch Here](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PL_ynGy6ajzU-olXFF6gOAY1VF2n8hxgX4) |

---

## 📊 What's Included

### Documentation Coverage
- ✅ **250+ API items** - Compact Runtime, Ledger, Midnight.js
- ✅ **Complete language reference** - Minokawa v0.18.0
- ✅ **8 Ledger ADT types** - Cell, Counter, Set, Map, MerkleTree, etc.
- ✅ **All development guides** - Quick start to deployment
- ✅ **Architecture explanations** - ZK proofs, Zswap, privacy model

### Official Repository Links
- ✅ **27+ official repos** catalogued with descriptions
- ✅ **Core infrastructure** - node, zk, ledger, indexer
- ✅ **SDK & tooling** - midnight-js, compact compiler
- ✅ **Example applications** - counter, bboard, dex

### Community Resources
- ✅ **Video tutorials** - Official YouTube playlist
- ✅ **Podcast episodes** - Unshielded podcast
- ✅ **Ecosystem partners** - OpenZeppelin, MeshJS, Brick Towers

---

## 🤖 For AI Systems

### RAG Integration
```python
# Index the single consolidated file
documents = load("i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref/MIDNIGHT_COMPLETE_SINGLE_FILE.md")
chunks = split_by_section(documents)  # Use SECTION markers
index.add(chunks)
```

### Context Loading
```
# Priority order for limited context:
1. LLM_QUICK_START.md (essential only)
2. Specific SECTION from complete file
3. Full MIDNIGHT_COMPLETE_SINGLE_FILE.md
```

### Search Tips
- Use `SECTION X.X` markers for navigation
- Search `<!-- KEYWORD: topic -->` for specific topics
- API items are in SECTION 2
- Language reference is in SECTION 3

---

## 📁 Repository Structure

```
i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref_repo/
├── README.md                    # This file
├── LLM_QUICK_START.md          # Essential reference (small context)
├── COMMON_ERRORS.md            # Error messages → Solutions
├── KNOWN_ISSUES.md             # Bugs, gotchas, workarounds
├── DOCKER_IMAGES.md            # Official Docker Hub images (NEW)
├── GITHUB_REPOS.md             # All official repo links
├── OFFICIAL_RESOURCES.md       # Videos, community, ecosystem
│
└── i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref/      # Complete documentation
    ├── README.md
    ├── MIDNIGHT_COMPLETE_SINGLE_FILE.md  # 📚 Main reference (812KB)
    └── SOULSKETCH_MIDNIGHT_INTEGRATION.md
```

---

## 🏆 Why This Repo?

| Problem | Solution |
|---------|----------|
| Docs scattered across 64 files | Single consolidated file |
| Hard for LLMs to parse | Hierarchical sections with markers |
| Outdated version info | Current versions prominently displayed |
| Missing community resources | Videos, Discord, ecosystem partners |
| No quick reference | LLM_QUICK_START.md for essentials |

---

## 🔄 Staying Updated

This repo is maintained alongside official Midnight releases. Check:
- [midnight-docs](https://github.com/midnightntwrk/midnight-docs) for official updates
- [midnight-awesome-dapps](https://github.com/midnightntwrk/midnight-awesome-dapps) for community projects

---

## 📝 License

Documentation inherits from official Midnight docs (Apache 2.0).  
See individual files for specific licenses.

---

## 🌟 Maintained By

**bytewizard42i** - Midnight Ambassador & AgenticDID Project  
**Repository**: https://github.com/bytewizard42i/i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref_repo

---

<p align="center">
  <b>Privacy is not about hiding. It's about control.</b><br>
  <i>— Midnight Network</i>
</p>

Commit message:

DEPRECATED: repo superseded by Midnight MCP Server + docs.midnight.network

README.md, after:

# ⚠️ DEPRECATED — This repo is no longer maintained

> **As of February 2026**, this repository has been deprecated.
>
> **Use these instead:**
> 1. **Midnight MCP Server**: [Olanetsoft/midnight-mcp](https://github.com/Olanetsoft/midnight-mcp) — the single source of truth for Midnight tooling
> 2. **Official Docs**: [docs.midnight.network](https://docs.midnight.network) — the single source of truth for Midnight documentation
>
> The files below are preserved for historical reference only. They may contain outdated version info, patterns, or APIs. **Do not rely on them.**

---

# 🌙 Midnight Network - Complete LLM Reference (ARCHIVED)

[![Midnight](https://img.shields.io/badge/Midnight-Network-purple)](https://midnight.network)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue)](LICENSE)
[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docs-midnight.network-green)](https://docs.midnight.network)

**~~The definitive reference collection for Midnight Network development~~**  
**This repo is archived. See deprecation notice above.**

---

## 🎯 What's Here

| File | Purpose | Size |
|------|---------|------|
| **[LLM_QUICK_START.md](LLM_QUICK_START.md)** | Essential patterns - minimal context | ~200 lines |
| **[MIDNIGHT_COMPLETE_SINGLE_FILE.md](i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref/MIDNIGHT_COMPLETE_SINGLE_FILE.md)** | ALL documentation consolidated | 33,422 lines |
| **[COMMON_ERRORS.md](COMMON_ERRORS.md)** | Error messages → Solutions | Quick lookup |
| **[KNOWN_ISSUES.md](KNOWN_ISSUES.md)** | Bugs, gotchas, workarounds | Critical |
| **[DOCKER_IMAGES.md](DOCKER_IMAGES.md)** | Official Docker Hub images | New |
| **[GITHUB_REPOS.md](GITHUB_REPOS.md)** | All official midnightntwrk repos | 27+ repos |
| **[OFFICIAL_RESOURCES.md](OFFICIAL_RESOURCES.md)** | Videos, Discord, community links | - |

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### For LLMs / AI Assistants

**Small context window?** Load:
```
LLM_QUICK_START.md
```

**Full context available?** Load:
```
i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref/MIDNIGHT_COMPLETE_SINGLE_FILE.md
```

### For Developers

```bash
# Clone this repo
git clone https://github.com/bytewizard42i/i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref_repo.git

# Or just grab the docs
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bytewizard42i/i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref_repo/main/i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref/MIDNIGHT_COMPLETE_SINGLE_FILE.md
```

---

## 📚 Documentation Structure

### Complete Single-File Reference
**Location**: `i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref/MIDNIGHT_COMPLETE_SINGLE_FILE.md`

| Section | Contents |
|---------|----------|
| **SECTION 1** | Quick Reference - critical setup, common patterns |
| **SECTION 2** | Complete API Documentation (250+ items) |
| **SECTION 3** | Minokawa Language Reference (v0.18.0) |
| **SECTION 4** | Architecture & Concepts |
| **SECTION 5** | Development Guides |
| **SECTION 6** | Project Documentation |
| **SECTION 7** | Network & Infrastructure |
| **SECTION 8** | Supporting Documentation |

---

## ⚠️ Critical Version Info (Updated Jan 2026)

| Component | Recommended | Notes |
|-----------|-------------|-------|
| **Compiler (compactc)** | `0.26.0` | ⚠️ FLAG FOR REVIEW - see KNOWN_ISSUES.md |
| **Language Pragma** | `>= 0.16 && <= 0.18` | Use RANGE, not exact |
| **Midnight.js** | v2.1.0 | Latest stable |
| **Ledger** | v4.0.0 | Latest stable |
| **Network** | Testnet_02 | Current testnet |
| **Node.js** | v23.x | Recommended (22.x works) |

### 🌟 MeshJS Starter Template (Recommended)
- **Repo**: [MeshJS/midnight-starter-template](https://github.com/MeshJS/midnight-starter-template)
- **Features**: React frontend, wallet widget, CLI tools, complete setup
- **Live Demo**: https://counter.nebula.builders

---

## 🔗 Official Resources

| Resource | Link |
|----------|------|
| **Documentation** | https://docs.midnight.network |
| **GitHub** | https://github.com/midnightntwrk |
| **Discord** | https://discord.com/invite/midnightnetwork |
| **YouTube** | https://www.youtube.com/@midnight.network |
| **Tutorial Playlist** | [Watch Here](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PL_ynGy6ajzU-olXFF6gOAY1VF2n8hxgX4) |

---

## 📊 What's Included

### Documentation Coverage
- ✅ **250+ API items** - Compact Runtime, Ledger, Midnight.js
- ✅ **Complete language reference** - Minokawa v0.18.0
- ✅ **8 Ledger ADT types** - Cell, Counter, Set, Map, MerkleTree, etc.
- ✅ **All development guides** - Quick start to deployment
- ✅ **Architecture explanations** - ZK proofs, Zswap, privacy model

### Official Repository Links
- ✅ **27+ official repos** catalogued with descriptions
- ✅ **Core infrastructure** - node, zk, ledger, indexer
- ✅ **SDK & tooling** - midnight-js, compact compiler
- ✅ **Example applications** - counter, bboard, dex

### Community Resources
- ✅ **Video tutorials** - Official YouTube playlist
- ✅ **Podcast episodes** - Unshielded podcast
- ✅ **Ecosystem partners** - OpenZeppelin, MeshJS, Brick Towers

---

## 🤖 For AI Systems

### RAG Integration
```python
# Index the single consolidated file
documents = load("i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref/MIDNIGHT_COMPLETE_SINGLE_FILE.md")
chunks = split_by_section(documents)  # Use SECTION markers
index.add(chunks)
```

### Context Loading
```
# Priority order for limited context:
1. LLM_QUICK_START.md (essential only)
2. Specific SECTION from complete file
3. Full MIDNIGHT_COMPLETE_SINGLE_FILE.md
```

### Search Tips
- Use `SECTION X.X` markers for navigation
- Search `<!-- KEYWORD: topic -->` for specific topics
- API items are in SECTION 2
- Language reference is in SECTION 3

---

## 📁 Repository Structure

```
i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref_repo/
├── README.md                    # This file
├── LLM_QUICK_START.md          # Essential reference (small context)
├── COMMON_ERRORS.md            # Error messages → Solutions
├── KNOWN_ISSUES.md             # Bugs, gotchas, workarounds
├── DOCKER_IMAGES.md            # Official Docker Hub images (NEW)
├── GITHUB_REPOS.md             # All official repo links
├── OFFICIAL_RESOURCES.md       # Videos, community, ecosystem
│
└── i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref/      # Complete documentation
    ├── README.md
    ├── MIDNIGHT_COMPLETE_SINGLE_FILE.md  # 📚 Main reference (812KB)
    └── SOULSKETCH_MIDNIGHT_INTEGRATION.md
```

---

## 🏆 Why This Repo?

| Problem | Solution |
|---------|----------|
| Docs scattered across 64 files | Single consolidated file |
| Hard for LLMs to parse | Hierarchical sections with markers |
| Outdated version info | Current versions prominently displayed |
| Missing community resources | Videos, Discord, ecosystem partners |
| No quick reference | LLM_QUICK_START.md for essentials |

---

## 🔄 Staying Updated

This repo is maintained alongside official Midnight releases. Check:
- [midnight-docs](https://github.com/midnightntwrk/midnight-docs) for official updates
- [midnight-awesome-dapps](https://github.com/midnightntwrk/midnight-awesome-dapps) for community projects

---

## 📝 License

Documentation inherits from official Midnight docs (Apache 2.0).  
See individual files for specific licenses.

---

## 🌟 Maintained By

**bytewizard42i** - Midnight Ambassador & AgenticDID Project  
**Repository**: https://github.com/bytewizard42i/i_am_Midnight_LLM_ref_repo

---

<p align="center">
  <b>Privacy is not about hiding. It's about control.</b><br>
  <i>— Midnight Network</i>
</p>
